docs: access control (#5)
gccloudone/aurora: content/en/architecture/security/access-control/_index.en.md

---
title: "Access Control"
linkTitle: "Access Control"
type: "architecture"
weight: 10
draft: false
lang: "en"
date: 2025-05-29
---

<gcds-alert alert-role="danger" container="full" heading="Avis de traduction" hide-close-btn="true" hide-role-icon="false" is-fixed="false" class="hydrated mb-400">
<gcds-text>Veuillez noter que ce document est actuellement en cours de développement actif et pourrait être sujet à des révisions. Une fois terminé, il sera entièrement traduit en français et mis à disposition dans sa version finale.</gcds-text>
</gcds-alert>

Access control is implemented according to the principle of least privilege. These procedures are reviewed multiple times a year, whenever there are updates to the underlying APIs or organisational processes.

> Aurora platform components that access or provide data are identified through non-human accounts: [Kubernetes ServiceAccounts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/) as well as Cloud Service Provider (CSP) identities such as [Microsoft Entra workload identities](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/workload-id/workload-identities-overview). These accounts are granted the minimum necessary sets of permissions for each component's intended function.

Author: Sounds good! Incorporating with a small wording tweak.

```suggestion
Aurora platform components that access or provide data are identified through non-human accounts: [Kubernetes Service Accounts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/), which are often also associated with one or more workload identities on each Cloud Service Provider (CSP) (for example, [Microsoft Entra workload identities](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/workload-id/workload-identities-overview)). These accounts are granted the minimum necessary sets of permissions for each component's intended function.
```

Kubernetes offers [Roles and ClusterRoles](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#role-and-clusterrole) which define access and [RoleBindings and ClusterRoleBindings](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#rolebinding-and-clusterrolebinding) which bind Roles and ClusterRoles to an OAuth identity. This identity can be an individual user or user group from an integrated identity provider or a Kubernetes ServiceAccount.

> Microsoft Entra ID is the centralized identity provider, with one account per human user. Through membership in one or more [Microsoft Entra groups](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/fundamentals/how-to-manage-groups), each account has access to one or more user roles that align with the following high-level definitions:

Author: It is my current impression that at least for human users it'll always be Microsoft Entra ID, which would be federated to the other CSPs. (Not sure whether or not that extends to workload identities, that might make more sense per CSP?)

> Microsoft Entra ID is the centralized identity provider, with one account per human user. Through membership in one or more [Microsoft Entra groups](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/fundamentals/how-to-manage-groups), each account has access to one or more user roles that align with the following high-level definitions:

Author: Some tweaks to account for "one account per human user" not always being that cut-and-dry

```suggestion
Microsoft Entra ID is the centralized identity provider for human users. Each Microsoft Entra ID account used to access Aurora is a member of one or more [Microsoft Entra groups](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/fundamentals/how-to-manage-groups) that grant a user role among the following high-level definitions:
```

Two custom ClusterRoles are defined for Platform Operators: [`platform-operator-view`](https://github.com/gccloudone-aurora/aurora-platform-charts/blob/main/stable/aurora-platform/charts/aurora-core/templates/rbac/platform-operator-view.yaml) for read access and [`platform-operator-maintenance'](https://github.com/gccloudone-aurora/aurora-platform-charts/blob/main/stable/aurora-platform/charts/aurora-core/templates/rbac/platform-operator-maintenance.yaml) for write access. ClusterRole aggregation to these roles further defines read and write access to specific platform components.

A ClusterRoleBinding binds these ClusterRoles to the Microsoft Entra group designated for the day-to-day activities of the cluster's Platform Operators.

Whenever possible, changes to Aurora CSP resources are effected via Infrastructure/Configuration-as-Code and corresponding automated CI/CD processes. Platform Operator write access to CSP resources is limited to cancelling such operations. Higher impact manual remediation requires escalation to the Platform Administrator role.

> ## Platform Administrator

Reviewer: > we could just make it more clear that the Platform Administrator role can also be accessed by relevant security personnel.
Sounds good to me!
